-----
layout: post  
title: "Release 1.34"  
...

Wow\! It's been over a year since the last release. I've hit a few
detours in life and development along the way, but first, what's in this
release.

  - Update [Pandoc.exe](https://pandoc.org/)
  - Use Pandoc's newer [GitHub Flavored
    Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) support
  - Add Lua script to allow GitHub Task List checkboxes
  - Incorporate and close all outstanding pull requests
  - Add new translations (Czech, Portuguese)

`Pandoc.exe` is the program that is used to convert [GitHub Flavored
Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) to HTML. The latest version is
more faithful to the output you see on GitHub.

![Example of Github Flavored Markdown](https://i.imgur.com/CdTYadl.png)

Several of you have supplied bug fixes and new translations. These
changes have been incorporated. Thank you very much\!

Get it at <https://github.com/mike-ward/Markdown-Edit/releases/latest>

### What's been happening?

I started to rewrite Markdown Edit a while back. The current version is
a weekend hack that sort of got away from me. The new code (see the
[next](https://github.com/mike-ward/Markdown-Edit/tree/next) branch on
GitHub) is more in line with current development practices. It uses
[Prism](https://github.com/PrismLibrary/Prism), [Dependency
Injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection),
composition and all those other lovely buzzword compliant technologies.

Prism and .NET have been changing quite a bit as of late and that's
caused some issues that I'm still waiting for third parties to resolve.
This has taken longer than I hoped.

And now Microsoft has finally announced a road-map to bring legacy WPF
programs into the .NET Core family. The
[next](https://github.com/mike-ward/Markdown-Edit/tree/next) branch is
well positioned to take advantage of these changes when they arrive.

It's also been a much larger task to rewrite Markdown Edit than I
anticipated. It has quite a few features. I revisit each feature and
rewrite it to be better and in particular more maintainable. I really
like the new code base but it's slow going.

So not many outward changes so far but I'm planning on maintaining and
improving Markdown Edit for a long time to come. Hopefully, the new code
base will facilitate this goal.

My wife has had some serious health issues as well. This has really
disrupted our lives and made it difficult for me to work on side
projects. Still, we soldier on.

Thanks for your patience and support. And to those of you who have
donated, you're awesome\!
